DePIN stands for Decentralized Physical Infrastructure Networks. It's a
new way to build and maintain infrastructure in the physical world.
This "infrastructure" can be anything from WiFi hotspots in wireless
networks to solar-powered home batteries in energy networks. DePINs are
built out in a decentralized way, by individuals and companies all over
the world, for anyone to use. In return, these contributors receive
financial compensation and an ownership stake in the network they're
building and the services they're providing (via token incentives).
DePINs are made possible through widespread Internet connectivity and
technological advancements in blockchain infrastructure and
cryptography.

Here at IoTeX, we're big believers that the infrastructure of the
future should be open, permissionless, and built by as many network
participants as possible. We've been working at the intersection of
physical devices (and their data) and blockchain technologies since
2017 (long before "DePIN" was even a thing). The way the world's
infrastructure is built and deployed has remained stagnant for far too
long and we can't wait to help change that for the better.

With DePINscan, builders have access to an out-of-the-box map
explorer and dashboard. Providing invaluable data-driven insights to
the greater DePIN community. Connected devices on DePINscan have grown
by over 300k in the past month.

What happens when crypto and blockchain meet the physical world?

The advent of blockchain technology has had a large, innovative impact
on many industries, ranging from finance (DeFi) to gaming (play to
earn) to art (generative NFTs and trustless authentication). However,
one area that has remained largely unchanged is physical
infrastructure.

Traditionally, the deployment and management of physical infrastructure
like wireless networks, cloud services, mobility networks and power
grids has been dominated by large corporations due to the high capital
requirements and logistical challenges associated with projects of this
size. As a result, these centralized entities have had a near-monopoly
on pricing and services offered to end-users, leading to a lack of
competition and innovation. This results in an experience for consumers
that is often subpar. Just take a look at the NPS (net promoter score,
a measure of customer satisfaction) for the oligopoly that is the
telecommunications industry in the United States (hint, it's incredibly
low).

However, even as we surface the undesirable results of infrastructure
built by a few, centralized corporations, there is hope! Companies that
leverage the assets, time, and energy of network members to provide
their services are operating in the exciting middle ground between
fully centralized infrastructure and DePIN. This concept is called the
"Sharing Economy".

DePIN as the evolution of the Sharing Economy

Companies like Uber and Airbnb have unlocked massive amounts of value
utilizing this "Sharing Economy" model. The "Sharing Economy" describes
how Uber, Airbnb, and others leverage contributors (and their assets)
to provide valuable goods and services. The diagram below shows how the
"Sharing Economy" typically works.

However, because Uber is a centralized entity, the power over its
network, drivers, and business remain in the hands of Uber itself. The
decentralized physical infrastructure movement seek to build on the
idea of a "Sharing Economy" but to do so in a way that is fairer and
more inclusive to the individuals and businesses actually building out
the network and making this all possible.

To give an example of this in action, consider Drife. Drife is a
DePIN version of Uber. Drife works similarly to Uber, matching riders
with drivers who own their vehicles and are willing to drive for money.
Riders pay fiat and drivers receive ~100% of that fiat payment.
However, since Drife is a decentralized protocol (and not one,
centralized corporation), drivers receive the $DRF token in recognition
of their contributions and can both suggest and vote on changes to the
protocol and its rules. In the future, Drife plans to use IoTeX's
W3bstream to issue additional token incentives to drivers who are
willing to drive in undercovered areas where driver supply is currently
low. This will help expand the geographical footprint of Drife's driver
network and benefit users greatly. This is a powerful, more inclusive
version of the Sharing Economy that removes the middleman (Uber) and
replaces it with a decentralized protocol, allowing for cheaper rides
for riders, higher revenue for drivers, and the ability for drivers to
exert influence on the network they're helping build every day.

We've seen how DePIN takes the "Sharing Economy" one step further with
token incentives and distributed governance. But DePINs bring many
other exciting innovations to the infrastructure of the future too!

Why DePINs are the future

DePIN has several benefits over traditional physical infrastructure
networks:
1. Collective ownership: Through the use of token rewards,
   contributors are encouraged to deploy and maintain infrastructure.
   DePIN's bottom-up approach means that the network is collectively
   owned by its participants, rather than a small group of
   shareholders.
2. Distributed Infrastructure Cost: A decentralized physical
   infrastructure network reduces overhead and expenses by leveraging
   the collective resources of a network's participants.
3. Decentralization: A decentralized network offers a more resilient
   and secure infrastructure compared to traditional, centralized
   infrastructure networks. Building a network in a decentralized
   manner means that the network is less susceptible to corruption,
   hijacking and hacks, and other negative externalities associated
   with centralized control.
4. Open Competition and Innovation: DePIN enables new levels of
   innovation across various sectors. By removing the barriers to
   entry associated with traditional infrastructure networks, DePIN
   encourages new entrants to compete in markets that were previously
   dominated by a few established players.

Many of the assets that we own or actions that we take every day have
untapped value. If you're going to be driving your car anyways, why not
have a DIMO device installed under the steering wheel to collect and
monetize your car data? Or a Hivemapper mapping device on the dashboard
that collects images of the road and builds a decentralized version of
Google Maps? You can earn tokens and participate in both of these
networks just from the comfort of your car! You could also install a
smart meter, solar panel, or battery at your home to participate in
Daylight Energy's DePIN project, earn tokens, and contribute energy to
the grid when demand exceeds supply. All of these examples represent
DePIN use cases that could be present in your everyday life. Now that
you can picture how DePIN could impact your day to day routine, let's
zoom out a bit and add some context about where DePIN fits into the
broader crypto landscape today.

DePIN within the context of crypto as a whole

While DePIN is a smaller, emerging sector of crypto today, its
potential for growth is massive as this model is used to build better
networks across industries as diverse and as large as telecom, energy,
mobility, and storage.

While the real world economy is easily valued in the hundreds of
trillions of dollars, Messari recently wrote that the DePIN
sector's total addressable market is currently ~$2.2T and could reach
~$3.5T by 2028. This is ~3x the market cap of all of crypto today. The
FDV (fully diluted value) of all decentralized physical infrastructure
projects is currently only ~$5B. DePIN projects are looking to solve
some of the world's most fundamental problems by leveraging blockchain
technology, token incentives, and the power of the Internet.

Here's a sector map that includes most of the DePIN projects on the
market today. We've categorized them into four broad groups: server
projects, infrastructure, sensor projects, and wireless projects. IoTeX
(and our W3bstream product) are a core part of the infrastructure
powering these DePIN projects, as we help connect smart devices and
their data to smart contracts on blockchains. W3bstream is middleware.
It's a general purpose, off-chain compute environment that's focused on
reducing go-to-market time for DePIN and RWA projects and acting as an
"oracle for the real world".

DePINscan is a new data aggregation and visualization tool that
shines the light of transparent data on the entire DePIN sector.
DePINscan’s Map and Discover features create a full picture of the
projects that make up this sector and its connected devices.

Read on to hear about the history of the "DePIN" term and the other
acronyms that were used before it to describe this space.

The DePIN origin story

The term "DePIN" is the acronym the industry has settled on to describe
this up and coming sector of crypto. We have Messari to thank for
suggesting this acronym and uniting the space under one banner, but
there have been a few other terms used to describe this sector in the
past that are worth exploring.

In November of 2021, IoTeX became the first to place a label on this
up-and-coming sector, calling it MachineFi (a play on words
combining "machine" with "DeFi" to represent the financialization of
machines and their data).

In April of 2022, "Proof of Physical Work" (PoPW) was introduced by
Multicoin, explicitly referring to incentive structures that enable
anyone to contribute permissionlessly to a set of shared objectives.

In July of 2022, "Token Incentivized Physical Networks" (TIPIN) was
coined by Lattice to describe networks that use token incentives to
motivate individuals to participate in the deployment and operation of
decentralized networks.

In September of 2022, "EdgeFi" was proposed by Borderless Capital
to include decentralized infrastructure networks that focus on
deploying hardware resources closer to end-users at the network's edge.

In November of 2022, Messari conducted a Twitter poll to unite the
space under one acronym, with voters choosing between PoPW, TIPIN,
EdgeFi, and DePIN. DePIN won with 31.6% of the votes.

On December 22, 2022, in its annual "Theses", Messari mentioned
"DePIN" in research for the first time, stating that it "will be one of
the most important areas of crypto investment for the next decade."

On January 19, 2023, Messari published a report devoted entirely to
DePIN and the rest is history.

While there will undoubtedly be new acronyms suggested as this space
grows and matures, we stand behind "DePIN" given that the defining
characteristic of these networks (and their primary differentiator) is
their decentralization.

However, this decentralization brings unique challenges and creates a
much different design space for the deployment and maintenance of
physical infrastructure networks in the real world, today.

DePIN creates a totally new design space for physical infrastructure

Each DePIN network will involve real-world devices that are generating
and sharing their data. As this dataset grows larger and larger, the
design space for dapps to be built to utilize various subsets of this
data or to serve niches in each market that pop up grows larger and
larger as well. Take DIMO for instance. DIMO is a DePIN mobility
project focused on collecting car data, analyzing it, and providing
value-added services to car owners. DIMO functions as an open data
platform, allowing developers to build dapps on top of the data that is
collected by the network to provide valuable services to car owners
themselves.

DePINs are built on four fundamental components that allow for
innovation far beyond what centralized networks can provide:
1. Physical infrastructure: DePINs require physical infrastructure to
   be built out and maintained in the physical world.
2. Offchain compute infrastructure: DePIN relies on middleware that
   allows real-world data to be ingested, analyzed, and then used to
   calculate user contributions and actual demand.
3. Blockchain architecture: Blockchains function as tamperproof
   ledgers, device registries, and the home of token economies.
4. Token incentives: Tokens are used both as an incentive to build out
   the supply-side of a network (e.g. motivate contributors) and also
   often as the currency that demand for the network's services is
   priced in (e.g. purchasing broadband access).

These components are powerful new tools in the toolkits of DePIN
builders, but this power comes at a cost. Building any kind of physical
infrastructure in the real world is difficult. Correctly setting up and
then implementing functional, decentralized middleware that records
real-world activity on a blockchain, which is then stored immutably and
used to trigger token incentives within a purpose-built token economy
is even more difficult. However, DePIN networks have a secret
superpower that helps them overcome these difficulties that we'll
explore in the next section.

The DePIN Flywheel

Due to their use of a token, DePIN projects can benefit from a positive
flywheel effect where increased usage (demand) increases token price
through burns or buybacks, which then provides extra incentive for
contributors to continue building out the network as the dollar value
of the tokens they are paid increases.

As the network grows, investors become more and more interested and
begin to support the project with funding. If a project is open-source
or makes contributor/user data available to the public, developers can
build dapps on top of the data, creating additional value within the
ecosystem which attracts more users and contributors alike. The image
below demonstrates an example of how this Flywheel works in the market
today.

Helium used this Flywheel to great effect to motivate people around
the world to build out the world's largest IoT network in just three
years (400k+ hotspots online globally). The Helium Network proved out
the power of this Flywheel effect and provided a blueprint for the rest
of the DePIN industry, which is now utilizing it to great effect in
sectors as diverse as energy, mobility, and weather!

While DePIN projects will no doubt utilize their tokens and this
Flywheel effect to catalyze their network growth, IoTeX is ready and
willing to help DePIN projects on other fronts as well.

IoTeX's role in the DePIN sector

In May of 2023, Messari published a follow-up piece on DePIN
infrastructure, including an analysis of the various blockchains that
DePIN projects are building on and also other companies serving the
industry in a variety of ways.

IoTeX was mentioned as an EVM-compatible Layer 1 blockchain
purpose-built for machine data and DePIN startups. Our W3bstream
off-chain compute platform connects data from smart devices to smart
contracts. The image below describes how W3bstream sits in between the
blockchain and physical devices as a real-world "oracle", similar to
Chainlink. Our hardware development kits, embedded SDKs for Android,
iOS, Arduino, Raspberry Pi, as well as our API and cloud backend
connection options provide an easy way for developers to ingest data
from the physical world into their W3bstream environment.

W3bstream supports all EVM-compatible chains and will soon expand
support for non-EVM chains like Solana that are popular with DePIN
developers as well.

Outside of W3bstream, IoTeX has a variety of other products and
services that enable DePIN development. The picture below shows the
myriad of ways in which we look to catalyze the DePIN sector across the
entire tech stack.

How IoTeX helps

IoTeX is the go-to infrastructure provider for any company looking to
represent physical devices and their data (and do something with that
data) on-chain! We enable DePIN innovation and assist ambitious
builders by providing decentralized infrastructure, developer tools,
and go-to-market support. Our expertise comprises three primary
components:

🏗️ Blockchain & Off-chain Compute Infrastructure
  * IoTeX W3bstream is a first-of-its-kind, chain-agnostic,
    decentralized protocol that connects real-world data from smart
    devices to smart contracts. W3bstream provides an off-chain
    environment for developers to crowdsource data from users' smart
    devices. It generates "proofs of real-world activity" that can
    trigger smart contracts to deliver digital assets (such as
    cryptocurrency, stablecoins, and NFTs) to users.
  * IoTeX L1 is a secure, decentralized, and developer-friendly
    platform for building and scaling Web 3.0 and DePIN applications.

🛠️ Developer Tools
  * ioPay is a multi-chain crypto wallet for managing IoTeX
    accounts and major L1s/L2s.
  * ioTube is a cross-chain bridge for transferring tokens between
    IoTeX and major L1s/L2s.
  * iotexscan is an IoTeX blockchain explorer for viewing the full
    transaction history and asset holdings.
  * Staking Portal makes it easy to stake $IOTX tokens and vote for
    Delegates to join network consensus.
  * Fastblocks is IoTeX's "Infura" for easily starting and managing
    blockchain full nodes or Delegate nodes.
  * Developer Portal and Docs are for developers to access
    step-by-step tutorials, technical blog articles, updates, and
    comprehensive guides to acquire knowledge on constructing
    applications and contribute to and expand within the community
  * DePINscan is a public good that empowers investors and DePIN
    enthusiasts with information crucial to making important investment
    decisions such as the project to invest in or which DePIN hardware
    to purchase. DePINscan is fueled by several sources including the
    W3bstream Trusted Metrics API and other third party APIs.

📦 Go-to-Market Package
  * Open Hardware Manufacturing Support: Ucam and Pebble
    Tracker are two in-house hardware we designed and built for
    developers to experiment with crazy ideas of real world +
    blockchain that is widely recognized by the developer community. We
    have the expertise to design, manufacture, and ship web3 native
    hardware and can assist DePIN projects with their own hardware
    strategy.
  * IoTeX Halo Grants: This is the program to accelerate the growth
    of the IoTeX ecosystem by providing technical guidance, financial
    support, marketing and community engagement, and investment
    opportunities to projects promoting the growth and adoption of
    IoTeX technology.
  * IoTeX Ecosystem Fund: The IoTeX Foundation has launched a
    Sustainable Ecosystem Fund to support builders accelerating the
    IoTeX ecosystem across different categories of applications
    including DeFi, GameFi, NFTs, DAOs, DePIN, and Real World Web3 with
    the aim of connecting billions of smart devices to the blockchain
    networks and building the Web3 machine economy.
  * Project Launch Stacks: Manage project initial liquidity on
    mimo.exchange, launchpads, coin listing on major dashboards,
    connection to top tier crypto exchanges and money makers, and many
    more.
  * Community and Events: IoTeX has developed a robust community
    focused on real-world web3 applications since 2017, utilizing
    various social media platforms to foster engagement. We also invite
    DePIN projects into events (https://r3alworld.com) we host,
    e.g., R3alworld@ETHDenver’23 attracted 1000+ DePIN developers and
    investors.

Across our blockchain and off-chain compute infrastructure, developer
tooling, and go-to-market package, IoTeX has helped (and will continue
to help) promising DePIN projects grow and gain traction for years to
come.

DePIN: let's build tomorrow's infrastructure together, today

To recap, Decentralized Physical Infrastructure Networks (DePIN)
represent a paradigm shift in the deployment and maintenance of
physical infrastructure. By leveraging cryptoeconomic protocols and
blockchain technology, DePINs enable a more efficient, decentralized,
and equitable approach to infrastructure deployment.

With the ability to scale rapidly and the potential to disrupt large
traditional industries, DePIN has the potential to become a major
player in the world of infrastructure. As more of these projects are
developed and deployed, we can expect to see significant disruption and
innovation in the way we build and maintain physical infrastructure
networks.

While any revolutionary new technology brings with it unique
challenges, we remain convinced of the power of this model to improve
the infrastructure and quality of life of the world's population. Here
at IoTeX, we're incredibly excited about the innovation and growth that
are occurring here and will continue to support the DePIN space in
every way possible. If you're as excited as we are about building out
infrastructure in a decentralized way, head over to
https://w3bstream.com/ to learn more.
For more specific inquiries, please contact our team members below:
  * If you're a developer, contact our Dev Rel lead Simone at
    [email protected]
  * If you're a project founder, contact our BD lead Larry at
    [email protected]
  * If you're an investor, contact our Head of Investment Jing at
    [email protected]
